Hobbs and Shaw Speeds Past It's Predecessors In Fun Storytelling

8/3/19

The latest in the Fast and Furious franchise and its first spinoff film, Hobbs and Shaw shows that there is still life in this franchise and proves its future is brighter than ever. The 2 hour 16 minute action-comedy movie is perfectly paced and centers around the unlikely duo, Dwayne Johnson’s Hobbs and Jason Statham’s Shaw, teaming up to save Shaw’s sister, Vannesa Kirby. The duo’s excellent chemistry sets up an endless stream of comedic moments throughout the film as their personalities constantly clash. However, the comedy of the film is not only to get laughs but is superbly written to advance each of the title character’s own personal growth storylines.

Although wildly successful the earlier installments in the franchise utilized spectacular action sequences to gain acclaim, it is nice to see the franchise continue to move in a more character and story-driven direction. The movie’s main antagonist is Idris Elba’s Brixton Lore, a supersoldier driven to save the world by evolving the human race. Idris Elba’s superhuman performance is so fun to watch that I almost wish he had more scenes. It is satisfying it is to see him in a superhuman role that fully uses his acting ability. 

In normal Fast and Furious fashion there are several impossible car chase sequences and lots of explosions for those fans of the earlier films. Johnson and Statham participate in many brawls throughout the film, some played for comedic value and while others are pure action sequences. It demonstrates a perfect blending of the two genres and should provide an example for more buddy films in the years to come. Although the buddy team up movie is nothing new, the film does an enjoyable and new take on the genre.

While my interest in the Fast and Furious franchise was fading, Hobbs and Shaw breathes new life into the franchise and sets up its future in the main series and new spinoff sequels. With strong action movie storytelling I believe this franchise can stay relevant and even have some of its best movies yet to come.


