What to Watch with your Partner - August 2021

08/02/2021

Summer is in full spring and as August begins there is a new set of movies available to stream just a click away. Whether you want to stay inside and beat the heat or to avoid the delta variant, here’s a list of movies and tv that you should stream with your partner this month.

h2:Action/Entertainment

h3:Fast and Furious Franchise

Recently my girlfriend and I rewatched the entire Fast and Furious franchise to get caught up for the release of Fast Nine. We were a little slow for the theatrical release but timed it just right for the digital on demand as Fast Nine is now available to stream on demand. Watching all of the ridiculous car chases and stunts together was a very fun experience for both of us and we could not wait to see how they escalated the stakes and pushed boundaries of what's possible for the next movie. There are also now 10 movies, including the excellent spinoff Hobbs and Shaw, which gives you and your partner many nights of entertainment to look forward to. 

As of August ‘21, The Fast and the Furious, 2 Fast 2 Furious, and Hobbs and Shaw are on HBO MAX. Fast and Furious: Tokyo Drift and Fast and Furious are on Peacock. The others, including the new Fast Nine, are available on demand. 

h2:Trash Reality TV

h3:Love Island UK (HULU)

When I say “trash” I mean it in a literal and endearing way. To me and my partner, Love Island UK is a superior version of The Bachelor or Too Hot To Handle. Hot young singles are trapped together in a villa in Mallorca, Spain to find love. As opposed to other shows, the magic of Love Island comes from its format, it has shows 6 days a week. (7 days, if you include the very skippable bonus episode with cut scenes or interviews with islanders who were booted) The show is now in full swing but being shown on a delay in the US via Hulu. Watch out for spoilers on social media because UK viewers are a few weeks ahead of us in the states. I’d recommend jumping in soon as the infamous Casa Amor episodes are about to drop in the coming weeks. 

h2:Teen Thriller

h3:Outer Banks (NETFLIX)

My top 3 quarantine shows of 2020 were (in no particular order) Tiger King, Bridgerton, and Outer Banks. Of the 3, Outer Banks may be the most underrated by those who have not seen it. For those who have, you get the hype, and season 2 just dropped on Netflix at the end of July. Time to jump back in with a counterculture group of teens who are clearly in their mid-20s with really minimal parental supervision. Sounds like this show would be pretty bad but it exceeded all expectations and I have been waiting for the return. I’ll leave it at that if you still need to catch up on Season 1 before delving into the new season. Let’s just say it has a treasure hunt, steamy teen romance, and talks to social class issues. What else could you want?



